Topic: Considering an ablation
URL: https://community.patient.info/t/considering-an-ablation/800303

--- Post 1 ---
Author: None
Timestamp: None
Content:
Hello,
New to this forum…my PVC story sounds very similar to many here. I had my first noticeable bout 14 years ago during a football game. Since then episodes lasting anywhere from a few days to months; often followed by periods lasting over a year without any or very few. I had a particularly bad spell late 2021 to early 2022 which finally landed me in front of an electrophysiologist. I was prescribed two doses of 25mg of metoprolol daily. They disappeared almost entirely for over a year only to come roaring back this past February. I am currently wearing an event monitor and they should have some good data as the last week has been fairly intense.
I feel the frustration as I read the posts here but also am thankful that there is a sense of empathy.
My thoughts about my PVC’s are numerous and have been refuted and validated by people in the health care industry. Anxiety is definitely a factor for me as both a trigger and an enhancer. However my recent bout has been characterized by waking with heart racing and irregular PVC’s which degenerates quickly into trigeminy and bigeminy . On these days I usually have a similar but not quite as intense episode in the late afternoon. Neither anxiety triggered. I also have a small but active congenital hiatal hernia which has been symptomatic nearly my entire life. It was diagnosed endoscopically twenty+ years ago. I have also been one PPI’s (nexium first then Patropazole last five years). My recent episode of PVC’s has been running concurrently with a bad GERD/IBS flare up. I had my five year endoscopy three weeks ago…diagnose acute esophagitis with pronounced inflammation. My GI doctor upped my pantropazole and since then the PVC’s have intensified. I have read numerous studies regarding esophageal irritation triggering PVC’s as well as the negative effects of long term PPI use including their effects on electrolyte levels that can impact heart rhythm.
I had a heart attack while jogging (regular exerciser, fairly fit, eat decently, bad genes). At the time I was not having PVC’s and my cardiologist believes there is no relationship between my coronary artery disease and my PVC’s.
Bottom line…these things are annoying, scary and difficult to treat. As my title suggested I am considering an ablation…just want these to go away.

