Topic: Ectopic Beats Linked to Digestive / Indigestion Issues?
URL: https://community.patient.info/t/ectopic-beats-linked-to-digestive-indigestion-issues/796589

--- Post 1 ---
Author: None
Timestamp: None
Content:
Hi everyone, I am a 29 year old male from the UK, currently taking 1.25mg of Bisoprolol daily for ectopic heart beats which have been going on for around 2 years now, give or take.
I have been racking my brains trying to come up with an explanation and to find a pattern or trigger for the ectopic beats, and I am getting these skipped beats, missed beats and extra beats several times per minute every single day, with some days being worse than others.
I have had ECG’s, blood tests and an Ultrasound scan of my heart which have ruled out anything sinister which could be causing the issues, but I have recently stumbled across a possible trigger when it comes to food.
The ectopics seem to start getting worse towards the afternoon - especially after eating food (I haven’t yet been able to pinpoint a certain food as the culprit) and occasionally I have noticed that they can be partially calmed with the use of 2x Rennies (chewable heartburn / indigestion tablets). These seem to provide me with a small amount of relief for a short time.
Unusually, I notice that when I drink alcohol the ectopic beats actually reduce in frequency, however this is short lived as they do come back (usually worse) as the alcohol leaves my system the next morning / day.
I am wondering if anyone else has had similar issues with digestive links, or whether anyone has any clue as to whether the ectopics could be linked to a digestive issue. Any help would be great!

--- Post 2 ---
Author: None
Timestamp: None
Content:
Hi, brother I’ve been struggling with the same problem as yours for almost a year. At first I was very scared that what is happening to me and I didn’t know what was that. Then I consulted almost seven different doctors out of which three were cardiologists, three were general physicians and one was homeopathic doctor. My tests including ECG and ECHO were clear and there was nothing in them. But I was continuously facing thing and I was very scared of it. Every doctor I consulted said that it is happening due to anxiety. I even consulted a psychiatrist. She gave me medicine but it was of no use. Now I’m totally helpless and don’t know why is this happening with me. A friend of mine suggested me that it can be due to stomach problem. after that I started noticing that in the morning when I’m dead hungry and when I eat something I face and increase in my ectopic beats. I face anxiety attacks due to it. I was an esports player but I quit gaming because during gaming these beats tend to increase and when it’s and intense situation in the game, these beats are followed by anxiety attack.
Now, the answer to your question “Ectopic Beats Linked to Digestive / Indigestion Issues?” is YES, it is linked to Digestive Issue. So, I’m going to consult a Stomach doctor and I suggest you to do it as well. And if you get any improvements or you happen to find the root cause, please do let me know because I’m worried and scared.
Thanks!

