Topic: Feeling Hopeless
URL: https://community.patient.info/t/feeling-hopeless/800670

--- Post 1 ---
Author: None
Timestamp: None
Content:
Im a 54 yr old female, relatively healthy apart from bouts of high blood pressure and high cholesterol. Happy carefree life.
In Sep last year i started having palpitations when laying on left side that quickly esculated to right side then just all the time and then just sitting to then just most of the day everyday. Cardiologists confirmed pvcs and stopping of beats for 3 seconds at a time then booming catch ups etc.
Had an ablation in January and put on 200mg flecainide.. The surgery was unsuccessful as its in the thickest part of the wall. Its just been a hell of a ride i want to get off and im just told I’ll have to just go through life with them, but i can’t see how this wont kill me, it’s constant anxiety as i just dont get a break from them.
In April this year i had to have a general anaesthetic for a surgery which unnerved me bc of flecainide i was convinced i wasnt going to wake up after it bc the palpitations laying in the operating theatre were going full ball as well. Now this is where it gets interesting.
I not only woke up but all my palpitations ceased to exist. For 43 days not a missed beat or a notion of anything whatsoever i had stopped taking flecainide on that day as well. Bliss… But a whole lot of praying it might be gone.
They are back but i dont have the laying trigger… I refrained starting flecainide again hoping i might fight it and they go but it increased and I’m back on it. They come when i move in bed change position but they go after several minutes. During the day they come and go and can last several hours or last 5 minutes every half hour.
My surgeon said was a coincidence but surely it’s worth looking into. Perhaps it wasn’t the anaesthesia but the Iv? I read that it has benefits which can last months? I ran down to buy electrolytes to try that but now read it’s dangerous to take them if taking flecainide.. I rang my cardiologist who is away but another said go for it.
My Question for the group is has anyone looked into this or have experienced a similar occurrence?

