Topic: Had surgery as a kid but made things worse! Need surgery to restore me, is their a surgeon who can perform tesicular transplant s?
URL: https://community.patient.info/t/had-surgery-as-a-kid-but-made-things-worse-need-surgery-to-restore-me-is-their-a-surgeon-who-can-perform-tesicular-transplant-s/821595

--- Post 1 ---
Author: None
Timestamp: None
Content:
When I was 16 , I Had major facial surgery to correct dead nerves in my face from having Cerebral palsy from birth. I think the CP Affected my Seminal production as when i was in pre -puberty , i was having really bad nocturnal emissions to the point where my parents thought it was bed wetting and even when i was about 7 or 8 years old, i was forced to wear a nappy/dyper. If not embarrassing enough, i was then forced into hospital to have surgery , once they realised that it actually semen1 I had a testicular transplant (OR a snip of the seminal vessel?) to stop the output of a least one testicle. making me “normal”. This was of course , well before i was expected to be sexually active , so i was really unware of the problems i would have had OR The problems i DID Have! The “normal “ output has actually made life VERY Difficult as i m left with still high levels of Pre-ejaculate and fatigue , exhaustion etc , #9systoms of 2Hyperspermia” the condition i had . After 30 years and a lot of research, i believe this to be what was “wrong” with me as a pre pubescent child. I Have come to understand my body better and know now, that i would have been better off as i was originally. As the pre ejeculate , blocks / hamper s the ability to reach orgasm. If i didnt have that surgery , i believe i would have been much more abled to Orgasm, (possible ven too quickly, ) but overall , would have been off , for me. i Have met a few ppl over the years with thi rare complaint and they all say that it a problem for them. However, ffor me, it would be a solution and would help give me back was i was naturally meant to have and a sex life along with it. Is there any Surgeons that can help to re-do this for me? and /or a donor would be helpful too. Thanks.

