Topic: Heart Fustrations.
URL: https://community.patient.info/t/heart-fustrations/805852

--- Post 1 ---
Author: None
Timestamp: None
Content:
Hello. I hope there’s someone here that can relate to this. I have primary progressive MS. I was also diagnosed with tachycardia.
I have a cardiologist and I also saw an EP cardiologist
My echo looked great
Two separate heart monitors showed tachycardia
I’ve been to the emergency room numerous times with what felt like chest pain, chest pressure however, no symptoms such as shortness of breath, sweating or anything like that but my blood pressure was through the roof
I was finally seen by cardiologist to place me on carvedilol twice a day 6.25 mg that has helped me keep the tachycardia fairly stabilized but I keep having these spells of where my blood pressure will shoot up super high. I’ll have a lot of chest pressure and feels like stinging in my chest.-left side
And every time I go to the emergency room they always clear me of anything cardiac even though my EKG’s very depending on what machine they use my labs come back where my troponin is normal at both draws, and they always listed as a typical chest pain, unknown ideology or now they’ve started to blame it on the MS/Anxiety. Something is causing this chest pain, and I just wish I could figure out why I could be spells. Although the doctors keep telling me everything is OK I just can’t believe them all the way because there’s been no answer as to why I continue to have the spells.
Blamed it on the MS saying it’s from nerve damage but if that’s the case why wouldn’t my whole chest bother me why is it always on the left side and why does my blood pressure continue to spike at really strange times at scary levels which the ER never seems too concerned about and I’m talking 200/110. Eventually, it will come down and sometimes when I have spells, I’m supposed to take an extra carvedilol and Xanax (0.25) I’m the one that asked for the lowest dose they wanted to give me a higher dose, but I’m very careful with medication’s
I suffer from a lot of pain due to the MS and I do have pain medicine for that which is a solution and I’m careful with that as well but I’m getting so frustrated and at the end of my rope wanting this issue with my chest to be resolved
Chester craves are always clear
They even did a chest CT and it didn’t show anything with regards to my heart
So what in the world is causing these episodes that feel like I’m about to have a heart attack outside of anxiety. Does anyone have any similar experiences or any input that they can offer? I am truly at the end of my rope with it
I’m a former ER RN but since having MS my skills have gone out the door, I haven’t worked since 2009 as MS has taken me down hard and I just wish I could figure this out.
I know this sounds crazy, but I think that I’ve developed this for lack of better words cardiophobia thing now because this keeps happening and I’m terrified of it being a heart attack yet nothing ever points to that and I’m getting sick and tired of going to the ER.
I would appreciate anybody’s input on this
I’m having a new echo in January
no stress test is needed. They don’t think I need one which is fine by me and when I saw the EP cardiac specialist, she felt it was my thyroid because I have multi nodules and she suggested having my thyroid out and returning to see her in three months however, none of my other doctors, including the endocrinologist agree they feel that my thyroid is stable, and I would not do well post, thyroid ectomy, and in fact, I can’t even get cleared by anesthesia for any surgery because of how ill I’ve been with MS unless it’s a dire emergency
Thank you for listening to my post. I’m grateful for your thoughts on this.

