Topic: I got pains on the chest. My doctor says it might be Syndrom of Tietze. But I need more perspectives
URL: https://community.patient.info/t/i-got-pains-on-the-chest-my-doctor-says-it-might-be-syndrom-of-tietze-/796712

--- Post 1 ---
Author: None
Timestamp: None
Content:
Hello (I am F22 y/o)
I got unregular pains on the left/right side of my breastbone. It started out with maybe twice a month in July and by now it is almost daily.
I had blood test done and those turned out fine. I got a 24 hour ECG/heart rythem test done for at home. (application had to be done at the hospital and the test results where also done at the hospital) Results came back this week and nothing has been found. My doctor says I got a normal irregular rythem but not more than is ‘‘normal’’ for the general population.
The pain feels like a sharp pain next to my breast bone. The pain is irregular in intensity. My doctor says it might be syndrome of tietze. But since it says that those symtoms should fade within weeks till a couple of months I am starting to get worried since its been over 6 months now.
I did excercise quite a bit. Three times a week to be exact. But since sports with high condition started to pain me more I dialed back a bit on that. So I stopped doing tennis. Which I normally played weekly. (other 2 sports are ballet once a week and body pump once a week.) Right now I am just doing ballet since its the least conditional sport for me currently.
I am not stressed that much. I also got the pains when I am ‘‘in resting mode’’ aka sitting in the train or just watching a movie. Its very unpredictable.
Today I had a call with my doctor and she says I have to take ibuprofen 3 times a day for 14 days to check out if it is indeed tietze.
I am not a big fan of painkillers since they have a lot of side effects. So I only take them if absolutely neccesary.
So to take them as a try out since she does not know what else to do… Feels simply wrong.
I am coming here to hope people might have some other perspectives or things I can try.
I would really like to get back into my sports and just live my life pain free again.
Thank you all in advance.

