Topic: I have a pounding heartbeat with a strong pulse at rest.
URL: https://community.patient.info/t/i-have-a-pounding-heartbeat-with-a-strong-pulse-at-rest/741968

--- Post 1 ---
Author: None
Timestamp: None
Content:
Hello everybody ! I played a Basketball game six month ago, when the game ended, I sat down and I felt that my heart was beating with a very strong pulse, not fast (55 bpm) but strong. My chest and my left arm was also painful. For 6 months, that hasn't changed, my heart is still beating hard at rest, we can see my stomach and my chest shaking, and the arteries of the arms and legs are painful, probably because of the power of the pulsations. I can't make efforts because of dyspnea and chest pain. Also, after eating, the heart beats with even more force, we see the arteries shaking and I feel dizzy, and I sleep very bad. 5 days after the basketball game, the cardiologist finds a normal ECG, a normal echocardiography. Another cardiologist finds a normal ECG, normal echocardiography, normal echo-doppler. Laboratory tests to detect heart problems are normal. A very compete blood and endocrine test does not reveal anything abnormal (metanephrine, cholesterol, thyroid, insulin, creatinin, hemoglobin, minerals, pituitary hormones ...). Even 24h urinary hormones are normal. A CT scan of the abdomen and chest reveals nothing. I saw a Gastroenterologist because my symptoms worsen after eating, he gave me an endoscopy and told me that I have a small hiatal hernia and the Helicobacter bacteria in the stomach with moderate gastritis and a lot of aerophagia. I am 25 years old and I was in very good health, without any illness before this basketball, very sporty, I never smoked nor drank alcohol. Since several months I stay at home because of chest pain. This isn’t a joke unfortunately. I have a report where the cardiologist wrote that he sees a powerful pulse everywhere without understanding the reason Now I am taking the treatment for Helicobacter pylori and I have to do a barium meal to assess the size of my hiatal hernia. Is it possible that my hiatal hernia is causing me all these heart problems, even if it is small, I have heard that it could hinder the vagus nerve ? That would explain why my heart symptoms worsen after eating and when I have reflux ? Could that basketball have enlarged an existing hiatal hernia ? because for three years now, I had that similar strong heartbeats for some hours after heavy meals. Thank you for helping me because the doctors don't understand what I have.

--- Post 2 ---
Author: None
Timestamp: None
Content:
hello friend, i decided to make an account specifically to reach out to you since i believe your case is the closest thing to mine.
I had an svt episode in april this year, and I’ve been on isoptin 240 since then, 3 months passed by and everything was great, until i started feeling upper abdomen discomfort, bloating and sometimes pain when i press on it, this escalated to chest tightness and sometimes shortness of breath.
the last and most important symptom which drove me crazy and made get hospitalized a couple of times (i hope it is what due to what i think) was a symptom of fast heart beat, accompanied with pounding pulsed like the the one you mentioned. my cardiologist said this was sinus tachycardia, i told nothing absolutely changed in my life to get sinus, I didn’t even change or skip the drug…
but after a ton of clinic visits and checkups, im starting now to correlate this fast and bounding pulses to something in my abdomen.
my last visit to the doctor l, he said i have an unspecified gastritis, maybe an haital hernia or an ulcer. he recommended id do an h pylori test, i will see what the results would yield
what happen to your case? i hope you are better

