Topic: I had a heart ablation for wpw!
URL: https://community.patient.info/t/i-had-a-heart-ablation-for-wpw/805680

--- Post 1 ---
Author: None
Timestamp: None
Content:
so im 39 and i was diagnosed with wpw on 9-11-2023 and surprisingly was rushed into surgery the very next day !! weird right? because after reading about other experiences it seem like other people was prepped for this procedure! i was a smoker for many years a only drink on occasions however i had an electrical nerve in an extra pathway in my heart that was causing my heart to beat between 130-160 beats a min!!! i was told the procesure would only take a hour to hour thirty min! and i ended up in for 4 hours because the patway was so close to my main pathway it was very complex but got it done burnt it all way!! i started taking medication for heart rythems a month after becuse it was still beating on 130 but that was because i was suffing with hyperthroidism smh and i was unaware i suffered with that! so now im doin well now that i take meds for both the rhythm and thyroid im now getting beats between 60’s-75 ish but the medication started making me feel crappy!! first i was on propanolol and that made me feel like i still had afib wpw so they switch me to metoprolol and im doin well 50mg now im taking a half pill try to wing me off of it because its causing me to gain ALOT of weight as well as noghtmares and other issues smh im suffing with anxiety and i worry all the time about this heart if im doing the right thing by getting off the meds if i want to take anxiety meds if im going to heart attack or stroke like im driving myself as well as trying to beat this cigarette addiction i want to smoke a cigarette soooooooo bad its been 3 months since the procedure all of this just happened so fast and changed my life im dealing with new heart meds new life style just being diagnosed with hyperthyroidism a month after with a neck goiter the size of golf pball thank god the meds are helping to disolve that because i looked like a bullfrog ..come to find out thats what was causing the fast rhythms so thats why im trying to wing off the meds for my heart since taking the thyriod meds it help the fast beating i was suffing and didnt know!! also trying to beat this cogarette addiction i swaer you’ll i feel so hopeless sometime s like this is the most challenging life altering thing that has ever happen to me all in a matter of 3 months my whole entire life has changed i hope this helps someone with the same issues i have or if anyone have any advice please comment reply i need all the support i can get or if anyway i can be a help im her we are now in dec. 2023! and i will come back with an update!!! i need advise anout smoking ok well talk with you all soon!!

