Topic: Need helpful info re: Amiodarone
URL: https://community.patient.info/t/need-helpful-info-re-amiodarone/800264

--- Post 1 ---
Author: None
Timestamp: None
Content:
I am 69 yr. old male suffering horrible symptoms, all of which appear verbatim as worst case side effects of Amiodarone but no Doctor is willing to discuss. All I get is something to the affect of, “everybody takes that med.”, end of discussion. In the one year that I was on this med. I suffered retinal detachment and underwent two laser surgeries without discontinuing the med. and I was never aware of any of the regular testing and monitoring as directed in all literature I read.
My greatest problem is depression, since being on the med. for nearly one year (200 mg daily) I now ALWAYS feel morbidly sad for no reason, cry daily, often more than once. Generally I feel like one might feel when going home after a friend’s funeral. When distinctly suicidal thoughts began to appear in November of 2022 I re-read the side effects of my meds., Amiodarone was the most recently added and it’s worst side effects were perfect descriptions of what I was experiencing.
I immediately stopped the med. (could not establish contact with my Cardiologist/prescriber through the “portal”, the latest scourge to hit modern medicine) but had appt. within two weeks.
Strangely, when I saw my Cardiologist I told him I had stopped the med. and he gave no response, at all. He did not say good, bad, we must titrate off, we must replace with…, nothing, he made no audible response, just kept typing. When I read his visit report he had stated that he had told me to stop the med. This is patently false.
I have suffered COPD and Asthma for years (diagnosed and continually treated) as well as battled depression, debilitating anxiety for many years, all of which should have been basis for careful discussion and following up, none of this occurred.
Thus far the only medical professional who has been willing to discuss this med at length has been my pharmacist. That discussion resulted in learning that I do seem to fall into the one percentile (pharmacist’s words) for whom this med. is not safe, my dosage and length of use makes med. half-life in me, 252 days.. I need access to a dedicated medical professional who will discuss in detail all side effects I experience and answer my questions, ie: will side effects continue to fade (not all do according to literature) or is there action to be taken to lesson their adverse effects. I have lost all interest in virtually all activities whether upkeep of my home and property to drawing, painting, writing, and worst, woodworking, formerly a life long love. I cannot get myself to pick up pencil or even walk into my shop. I am very afraid of what limited recovery, or worsening, I might expect and what, if anything may be done.
My life is unravelling, my irritability is supernatural and a new phenomena, thought organization, memory (I often go from one room to another to get something and forget why I went, all within a minute or two. I often have to go back to whatever the task was and when I hit the same “need” I remember what I went to get in the first place). I have experienced enough bad diagnosis and unwarranted treatment over my life that I am becoming fearful of Dr’s visits. Their rejection and indescribable arrogance make me reluctant to bring up my greatest problem.
Any advice on where I may turn to find any professional information and help would be more than appreciated. I believe the other eye may be starting to show similar precursors to the detachment suffered in left eye last August, 2022. Very desperate.

