Topic: Never had AFIB Until Colonoscopy Cleanse in hospital and dehydration
URL: https://community.patient.info/t/never-had-afib-until-colonoscopy-cleanse-in-hospital-and-dehydration/802809

--- Post 1 ---
Author: None
Timestamp: None
Content:
Hi,
I always had cardio echo grams and cardiograms all my life and always good. I do get
palpitations when nervous and am on Xanax and Toprol XL for that for over 30 yrs. I also take a baby aspirin daily for a bit of plaque.
I had a colon episode in Dec last year and went to the ER. They had me in the ER
for three days waiting for a room, by this time I was already dehydrated a bit. Then
I had to do the cleanse which was intense compared to my first colonoscopy. The amount I had to drink was unbelievable. The next morning I had the test done without anesthesia (my choice) and all was well. But right after that I felt dizzy and my heart was racing. The nurses hooked me up to IV fluid and did a cardiogram. Said I had an Afib episode from the cleanse and dehydration. Then a day later they did an echo cardiogram and no sign of it. I also wore a heart monitor for 2 weeks after I got home. No Afib. But the cardiologist said it is not proof enough that I do not have it, and to get a cardiogram if I get palpitations. I get palpitations a few times a week from anxiety. Cannot go each time I get them!
Not sure I should get a second opinion with my test results. Or, wear the heart monitor again as cardiologist suggested every 6 months. Also suggested a CT of the heart to ease my mind.
Any suggestions welcomed. Thank you. I am 70yr female.

--- Post 2 ---
Author: None
Timestamp: None
Content:
Hello Linda
I would try the monitor as the cardiologist recommends. Some medications can deplete certain minerals in the body and I think that magnesium is one of them. It helps muscle function and the heart is a muscle. I take this every other week as I am on digoxin and it depletes my mag. I cannot eat leafy greens but they also contain a lot of magnesium.
But please check with your cardiologist first.
I hope this helps.
Ana

