Topic: Poorly all of a sudden High Blood Pressure very worried now..
URL: https://community.patient.info/t/poorly-all-of-a-sudden-high-blood-pressure-very-worried-now/803640

--- Post 1 ---
Author: None
Timestamp: None
Content:
hi, this is my first post…
a week or so ago my wife bought a home blood pressure monitor kit and by the off chance i thought id just have a go and top number was 191 looking at it it didnt seem right to me.
i was still ok to goto work etc but i do remember sinus was heavily stuffed. then the night of the 16th couldnt goto sleep felt whoozy and dizzy so in the morning i went to A&E as GP said no appointment.
at SDEC they checked and BP was high 184. they started me on Ramipol and few hours later it came to 164 and they let me go home.
i had to go again to A&E on the night of 18th and it was much worse the woozy dizzy feeling and i can only describe throat and sinus as being numb ie i couldn’t get any sensation of taking breath in which made me panic to breathe more etc.
today 19th woke up not too bad but around 1pm that faint woozy feeling came back its extremely worrisome and i dont know what to do? feels like faint pins needles all over
morning reading was 152 then it jumped in afternoon to 170
What’s wrong with me please help if you can. il try answer any questions im very worried
im 47 btw
regards

--- Post 2 ---
Author: None
Timestamp: None
Content:
hello, I same position as you, I’m 47 and have been feeling dizzy, my sinuses always stuffed like water in my head, pains in different places.
I went to the doctor and blood pressure is high, have been told to record for a week morning and night and have an ecg and blood tests.
Firstly, its easy to say but hard to do and you are panicking and worrying but you have to try and be calm, when I am stressed and worrying about it my blood pressure jumps, I wake up and it can be 120 which is OK, by dinner time after I’ve thought and stressed about everything it’s more up to 160.
just remember 1/3 of adults in the UK have high blood pressure, you are lucky that you have identified you may be at risk of high blood pressure and are on the road to get it under control, the calmer you can be the better your blood pressure will be and the doctors will help with the rest.
I’ve not had ecg or anything yet as it was only last week and there’s a month wait so hopefully I will be able to get sorted soon and you too.

