Topic: SVT?? (PLEASE READ??)
URL: https://community.patient.info/t/svt-please-read/806000

--- Post 1 ---
Author: None
Timestamp: None
Content:
Hello everyone,
So, yesterday I had my first bout of SVT. It happened at around 4am, after I had slept for 2 hours - I have Graves Disease which also interferes with my sleep.
I went to the bathroom, felt my heart rate increase, decided to measure. My HR went up to 179, I got really frightened because I thought I was having a thyroid storm… I was going to call an ambulance but I didnt because I didnt have any of the symptoms of a storm apart from tremors (no fever, delirium, yellowish skin). But afterwards I had chest pain, and abdominal pressure/tightness. I was having the abdominal pain for a day already before the bout occured. And lots of bowel movements along woth frequent urination.
I took a beta blocker and methimazole, HR went to 70-80. My family scoured the forum, and we determined that I have ‘intermittent tachcarydia’ (SVT). Didnt get any sleep that night.
I dont understand why this happened! I took all my supplements, did yoga, breathing techniques, and Im always on a strict diet (no triggers, minimal spicy foods). The only ‘trigger’ was that I applied magnesium oil to my feet to avoid insomnia, and its suppose to help with Svt but it made me itch all over.
Today, I took some more methimazole but no beta blockers, HR was as low as 66.
But at night, at around 2 am , it happened again, just as I was falling into sleep. I decided to sleep on my left side, although my family had read that the right side was better. Had another bout, no 179 HR but it might have been as high as yesterday if the beta blockers wouldnt have weighed it down. But my heart was trying to get there, and reached over 100 at a point. Today, I also drunk cold water, wore a cold towel, did the vasalva manoeuver and breath holding, deep breathing and took motherwort and l carnitine, which lowered my heart rate to an average of 70. But Im not sure these techniques will work if I have another strong bout. Also, once again I had lots of bowel movements.
By the way the abdominal pressure and tightness is still going on. And sudden pains in my heart.
I wanted to ask if anybody can share certain foods I should avoid/supplements I should take to avoid another bout. And are there any secret techniques/manoeuvers, to immediately lower my HR?
by the way,
Im a 36 year old female. No intensive exercise, as I have Graves, and also mild TED.
thank you very much for your help,
I am very thankful!

