Topic: Undiagnosed now for 3 months - SVT? Or what?
URL: https://community.patient.info/t/undiagnosed-now-for-3-months-svt-or-what/806543

--- Post 1 ---
Author: None
Timestamp: None
Content:
This will be long so I apologize. Since I had my daughter in 2014, I’ve had a high heart rate. If I have a meeting at work, or maybe even get a little upset, my heart jumps up to about 198 or so. I also am 5’9 and weigh 115. I have a high metabolism and have never been able to gain weight. Anyway’s, doctors told me I had anxiety, and put me on anxiety medicine for the past 8 years or so. I know how to differentiate anxiety from whatever I have been experiencing for the past 3 months. The first week of November I had a cavity filled, and my jaw and mouth were sore. So that next day, before bed, I took a very small dosage of CBD gummies that you would typically buy at your smoke shop. These are like 40mg gummies, and I barely take a nibble off the corner. I prefer that over pain relievers. I have used this brand with my anxiety medicine for years, and have never had any complications. I have taken higher dosages as well and never had any issues. I only use it for pain relief and take it before I go to sleep. Anyway’s, took it, and when I was going to bed about an hour or two later, my heart started palpitating and it started racing higher than it ever has before. At the moment I was struggling too much to consider putting on my watch to take my heart rate. But I had never felt my heart this high before. I felt the urge to use the bathroom (bowel movements), and to sit holding my knees up to my chest. My head was extremely fuzzy/light headed, and I felt like my chest was too tight, and I had shortness of breath. It was really bad. I kept having to get up and walk around, because it was too much to lay down and caused discomfort. After an hour of this I went to the ER, and they put me in the waiting room because they didn’t have a bed. I sat in there with these symptoms for 2 hours. Before it got to a manageable point. I went home and went to sleep that night. The next day I was feeling off so I went back to the ER, and they said I was fine and sent me home. No x-rays, just blood work and that was all. After that it just continued to get worse. I started getting “episodes”. I would be fine, and then my head would get fuzzy and it was almost impossible to continue talking. Then my face would get flushed/hot, and I would get a tight chest, and heart would race. My blood pressure also would go up. Then the urge to use the bathroom. I eventually got put on beta blockers to keep the heart rate part down, but it didn’t stop my episodes. I would be in the ER once a week for the past 3 months. I did a stress test (they didn’t tell me to not take my beta blocker till I was in the middle of my test), echo, and I wore a heart monitor for 3 days. I only had symptoms, no episodes during the monitor. And I was on my beta blockers. They told me at my appointment that they didn’t catch anything and tried to go back to anxiety or auto immune disease. I told them that it’s not either of those, that this is something with my heart. (A-fib runs in my mothers side of the family, and one aunt had wolf whites parkinsons, two people on my moms side have had ablations). They said they wanted to get a CT, and scan of my legs to make sure there’s no blood clots. I had both done, and the CT has been cleared but haven’t heard about the legs. Which another symptom is my legs constantly feel stiff or just like they don’t have the right blood flow. It’s awful.
I go back on 2/14, for my results, and then they said they will send me over to their EP to get the monitor placed maybe for longer. I haven’t had an episode in almost 2 weeks. But I’ve had mild symptoms. I really really feel like this is SVT. I don’t want the run around or to go years feeling this way undiagnosed. I feel like i have been stripped of the joys of life because I have to be careful exerting myself. And I’m scared to go far from home because of being away from my primary hospital I go to. Does anyone have any advice on how to get this diagnosed quickly, or how to find the solution? I am 27 years old. I get dismissed so quickly by cardiologists, and they blame anxiety. This is not my anxiety, I know the difference. I want to feel normal again.

