Topic: Valve replacement and Post perfusion syndrome
URL: https://community.patient.info/t/valve-replacement-and-post-perfusion-syndrome/794981

--- Post 1 ---
Author: None
Timestamp: None
Content:
It’s been a long difficult road after having 3 open heart surgeries over 8-year period. The 1st being a Medical Misadventure, going to Theatre with Severe to moderate Bicuspid Aortic Stenosis and to have a Valve Replacement, which was NOT done.
I was opened up in Theatre for 2.5 hours and the surgeon suggested to the team I was not bad enough to have it replaced, so zipped back up and sent home to recover.
Whereas all the previous tests proved I needed a urgent V/R. In that 2.5 hours my mind wonders what did they do to me in that time I was laying there, and chest was opened? I never did get an answer. The thought of being a guinea pig doesn’t impress me!
I never did come right till 18 months later I was critical and had to have the operation (at another hospital) all went well with my bovine tissue Valve until 5 years later started deteriating, so had to have that removed and so now I have the Mechanical Valve. I am 6 months Post-Op and still recovering, being told from all the tissue damage it could take upto a year plus to be fully recovered.
I have been suffering with Post Perfusion Syndrome for some time, the after-effects from being on the Bypass Machine 3 times has somewhat caused difficulty in my memory, concentration, Personality changes, emotional with Anxiety and lack self-esteem.
I am an ex nurse and feel I will never be the same I once was or return to my job, i loved healing and helping people. I am not a negative person but feel how all of this has changed my life now, I do get quite down and emotional but try to keep the positive side alive. I miss my nursing career and now wonder if I am capable of proceeding into another job! I do keep busy and I am still trying to figure out where my future will go, I assume like many others that have been affected from heart surgery and living with Pumphead.
I have been under a major Lawsuit and finally after all these years have been approved for Compensation in which I am still to this day waiting on the final outcome. This has also been part of my stress factors!
I am waiting a Neurological appointment in February to diagnose the effect it has caused to my mental health, PTSD and the Cognitive decline.
I am fortunate to have a loving supportive husband to get me through all this, while he has also suffered cancer and now in Remission, both supportive to each other the best we can. It really does help if you have support from loved ones and the Professionals, if you are lucky enough to find the right one that knows and understands the true Core of it.
I am happy to be alive at 58 and hope to live out my goals. I do wish others well on their journeys, and to live out their dreams and make it a reality, remember the best chapter is yet to follow.
Stay Strong Warriors.

